ARP scan is possible only if you are on the same subnet as the target systems. On an Ethernet (802.3) and WiFi (802.11), you need to know the MAC address of any system before you can communicate with it. The MAC address is necessary for the link-layer header; the header contains the source MAC address and the destination MAC address among other fields. To get the MAC address, the OS sends an ARP query. A host that replies to ARP queries is up. The ARP query only works if the target is on the same subnet as yourself, i.e., on the same Ethernet/WiFi. You should expect to see many ARP queries generated during a Nmap scan of a local network. If you want Nmap only to perform an ARP scan without port-scanning, you can use `nmap -PR -sn TARGETS`, where `-PR` indicates that you only want an ARP scan. The following example shows Nmap using ARP for host discovery without any port scanning. We run `nmap -PR -sn MACHINE_IP/24` to discover all the live systems on the same subnet as our target machine.

Talking about ARP scans, we should mention a scanner built around ARP queries: `arp-scan`; it provides many options to customize your scan. Visit the [arp-scan wiki](http://www.royhills.co.uk/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) for detailed information. One popular choice is `arp-scan --localnet` or simply `arp-scan -l`. This command will send ARP queries to all valid IP addresses on your local networks. Moreover, if your system has more than one interface and you are interested in discovering the live hosts on one of them, you can specify the interface using `-I`. For instance, `sudo arp-scan -I eth0 -l` will send ARP queries for all valid IP addresses on the `eth0` interface.

In the example below, we scanned the subnet of the AttackBox using `arp-scan ATTACKBOX_IP/24`. Since we ran this scan at a time frame close to the previous one `nmap -PR -sn ATTACKBOX_IP/24`, we obtained the same three live targets.

Pentester Terminal

           `pentester@TryHackMe$ sudo arp-scan 10.10.210.6/24 Interface: eth0, datalink type: EN10MB (Ethernet) WARNING: host part of 10.10.210.6/24 is non-zero Starting arp-scan 1.9 with 256 hosts (http://www.nta-monitor.com/tools/arp-scan/) 10.10.210.75	02:83:75:3a:f2:89	(Unknown) 10.10.210.100	02:63:d0:1b:2d:cd	(Unknown) 10.10.210.165	02:59:79:4f:17:b7	(Unknown)  4 packets received by filter, 0 packets dropped by kernel Ending arp-scan 1.9: 256 hosts scanned in 2.726 seconds (93.91 hosts/sec). 3 responded`
        

Similarly, the command `arp-scan` will generate many ARP queries that we can see using tcpdump, Wireshark, or a similar tool. We can notice that the packet capture for `arp-scan` and `nmap -PR -sn` yield similar traffic patterns. Below is the Wireshark output.